Hello, everyone.
In this lecture, we will try to
estimate model parameters of
autoregressive processes of
order 2 doing some simulations.
In others words,
we are going to simulate an AR(2) process.
So, the objective is to
estimate the variance
of the white noise in the AR(2) process.
And estimate the coefficient
of the simulated AR(2)
process using the Yule-Walker
equations in a matrix form.
AR(2) process with mean zero would be
in this format without any constant,
and the Zt's are innovations,
the white noise.
And we tried to simulate this process for
phi 1,
the first coefficient being 1 over 3.
Phi2, the second coefficient is 1 over 2.
And sigma is 4.
In other words,
this AR(2) model has three parameters.
So we're going to use
the Yule-Walker equations.
And eventually Yule-Walker estimators
to actually estimate each of
these coefficients, the phi1 and
phi2 and also sigma in this problem.
So we estimate the coefficients of
the model by first finding r1, r2.
Remember r1,
r2 are sample auto correlation function.
We're going to use acf routine in r.
And we're going to solve
the system using the following
matrix form of the Yule-Walker equations.
This is our r matrix which is symmetric,
it has an inverse.
And then we're going to
find the inverse of it and
multiply it to the left side which is r1,
r2.
And we will get phi1.hat, phi2.hat.
But before we start the estimation,
let me mention something about the sigma.
So, we know how to estimate
the coefficient in the AR(2) model but
how about the sigma?
That's also another
parameter of the system so
we should be able to
estimate that as well.
So let me note the following.
If you look at this system, we assume
that before we start with the Yule-Walker
equation, we already assume that
it is a stationary AR(2) process.
So this is a stationary AR(2) model,
AR(2) process.
We take the variants from both sides.
We get the variants of Xt, variants of
Xt minus 1, variants of Xt minus 2.
Which all of them are the same
because we have weak stationary or
covariant stationary process.
But since Xt minus 1, Xt minus 2
have some correlation, we also have
this covariance Xt minu 1, Xt minus2 term
here and the variance of Zt is sigma.
So we're going to use this
equation to get the sigma.
So sigma will be equal to
the variance of this process
is actually gamma 0 autocovariance at lag.
And then we have 1 minus
phi1 squared phi2 squared.
But if I pull out variance
from here this covariance,
this is of the autocovariance at lag1,
this is gamma 1.
If you plot variance you will get gamma
1 over gamma 0 which is actually rho 1.
So this is basically how
we can estimate sigma.
But we can actually simplify
this a little bit more.
Realize the following, from the
Yule-Walker equations in the matrix form,
we realized that rho 1 is actually from
the matrix multiplication is equal to
phi1 plus rho1, phi 2.
In a similar way, rho2,
is the same as phi1, rho1 plus phi2.
This comes from the Yule-Walker equations.
Then, I take this expression which
is inside this sigma expression.
Sigma is equal to gamma 0 times that.
Now here, we can separate this 2, phi1
phi2, rho1 expression into two of itself.
Of phi1 phi2 rho1, phi1 phi2 rho1.
In these two terms, we pull out phi1.
In these two terms we pull up phi2 and
we realize that the parenthesis
is actually rho1 and rho 2.
In other words, we actually get sigma.
We get a formula for sigma square.
Which is gamma 0 autocovariance
of the system at lag0.
The variance of Xt times 1
minus phi1 rho minus phi2 rho2.
Now, we can estimate sigma from here.
And this is going to be called the
Yule-Walker estimator, instead of gamma 0,
we're going to get C0.
This is a sample of
autocovariances at lag0.
We are going to use ACF
routine to get this.
And we'll find phi1 and phi2,
these are our coefficients which will come
from the Yule-Walker
equation in the matrix form.
And we're going to multiply
them with r1 or r2,
which are sample of
the correlation function.
And this will give us an estimate for
sigma squared.
So let me mention the following.
Now I'm going into the details
of the simulation.
And I'm going to open up the code.
Code is written in Notebook.
So at this point,
if you haven't all ready, stop the video.
Go and open up the Notebook.
Which is called AR (2) simulation.
And we're going to carry out every
step that I'm talking about in this
presentation.
Actually it's written
already in that notebook.
And try to run every
code block in Notebook.
So, let me first go over this and
then I'll open it up as well.
Number of data points,
we're going to choose 10,000 data points.
And we're going to use a few routines
here arima.sim, this is the simulation.
So arima.sim simulates data
from the arima models.
Well, what is arima?
This is auto regressive
integrated moving average models.
We have about moving average models.
We have talked about
auto regressive models.
But we haven't connected them yet but
we will still use this model
to get to the AR model.
We're going to use plot routine for
plotting.
We're going to use acf() to find
out the correlation function.
We will also use that to find
the autocovariance function.
And we have done this before.
Matrix, this basically defines
the matrix with dimension m and n.
And we're going to use solve(R,b).
Where R is a matrix, b is a vector.
And this routine solves Rx=b and
gives a solution.
Sigma, we're going to choose 4.
And phi[1:2], this is phi1 and phi2.
It is defined with this array,
1 over 3, 1 over 2.
N is 10,000.
We will set.seed(2017),
so that we will both get the same dataset.
So you can reproduce exactly what
I'm reproducing in this lecture.
And ar.process,
we are going to use arima simulation.
This is the model, model takes the list.
And then if you write ar, this specifies
the coefficients of the ar model.
And standard deviation is equal to 4.
Basically specifies standard deviation
of the innovations, the random noise.
And if you do that,
since you have set the seed(2017),
you should get the exact same ar.process.
And if you, for example,
look at the first five elements
out of 10,000 points in this time series,
you should get the following numbers.
Then, what do I need?
I need r's in my Yule-Walker equations.
I'm going to get my r's [1,2] or
R1 and R2.
ACF gives you sample auto
correlation function for a few lags.
If I take this $acf which means
I'm going to the acf part only.
And I'm going to look at acf2 and acf3,
because the first element in
this array is actually 1.
That's actually row 0.
Okay.
So if you look at this, r[1] and
r[2] are going to be following numbers.
I'm going to define R as a matrix,
[1,2,2].
What does it mean?
We want to have a 2 by 2 matrix,
with all elements 1.
So we get this R.
But, how do I do that so
that I can actually edit this?
So I'm going to edit 1, 2,
this term and this term, by r1.
This is the matrix R in AR(2) process.
Let's define matrix b, which is
the right hand side which is r1 and r2.
So we put them side by side.
And we try to solve (R,b).
Because R now we have it,
b now that we have it.
We can solve it.
Once we solve it in R,
R gives us the following answers.
The first one is an estimate for phi1.
The second one is an estimate for phi2.
So we called them phi1.hat and phi2.hat.
And we can actually put
them together here.
This is an array to see phi1 and phi2.hat.
And I define this as a matrix,
2 by 1 matrix.
And then phi1.hat becomes that matrix.
Just define c0 as
an autocovariance at lag0.
That's acf1,
because the index of R always starts at 1.
So we have to do acf1 here.
And then type to do covariance so that it
doesn't find out the correlation function,
it finds out the covariance function.
And we calculate the var.hat.
Var is for variance, so
we are trying to estimate the variance.
Well, we just did it.
This is c0 times 1 minus phi1 r1, phi2 r2.
Basically the product of phi1.hat with r.
And then we're going to
partition our screen,
our output device,
into three rows and one column.
In the first row we plot
the process with this title.
In the second row, we're going to
have acf, autocorrelation function.
And in the third row, we're going to
have a partial autocorrelation function.
Okay, so this is the Notebook.
We have the name, which is
Yule-Walker Estimation- AR(2) Simulation.
This is the name of the file
Simulation of AR(2) process.
We are simulating AR(2) process.
Let's set seed the common number, so
that we can produce the same dataset.
So let me run this cell, okay?
Now, let's look at the model parameters,
we're going to say sigma is 4.
And this is phi equal to null.
Now let's define phi, phi is basically
1 over 3 1 over 2, phi1 and phi2.
Let's just print it and just to make sure
to check that we have the right phi.
Exactly this is 1 over 3,
this is 1 over 2.
Okay, let's run.
And n equals 10,000.
All right and we come to a simulation.
We simulate using arima simulation.
First entry in this function is n,
which is 10,000, right?
So we are simulating a time series
with 10,000 points, what is the model?
Model has to be a list.
We have to give the AR,
in author arrays of coefficients
which is 1 over 3, 1 over 2.
We can actually write here phi1,
phi2 if you like.
And we have to make sure that the standard
deviation of the innovations,
the random noise is 4.
And the standard deviation is equals to 4.
And let's make sure we have
that right AR process.
Let's run this and we get the first
five entries in the time series.
The first five data points.
Here we are trying to find a name,
the 2nd and
3rd sample autocorrelation function,
right.
In other words, R is null, we define R.
R1,2 is going to be ACF.
We do not want to plot so
we say plot is false.
But we have to take second and third term
because the first term is actually rho0.
So first term is always 1.
We want to get r1 to r2,
we have to look at the second and
third entries in the ACF.
Okay, if we do that,
we get r1 here, this is r1.
Autocorrelation coefficient in lag1,
autocorrelation coefficient at lag2.
And let's define matrix R.
So matrix R is going to be a two
by two matrix, every element is 1.
Here we go.
This is our r, every element is 1.
And if I look at this cell,
I am editing first row,
second column and
second row, first column.
This other not the main diagonal but
other diagonal by r1.
So if you do that, run the cell.
We will update the following R.
This is exactly what we were looking for.
This is the R that's coming
from the Yule-Walker equation.
Let's define R matrix b which
is on the left-hand side.
And that's basically r1 and r2.
Okay, now its time to find
the coefficients, phi1.hat phi2.hat.
All we have to do, we have to
solve Rx=b and how do we do this?
We say, solve(R, b), right?
Solve(R, b) will give us a phi1 and
phi2 together.
But if I look at the first element,
that's phi1.
If I look at the second element
of that matrix, that is phi2.
And I take this phi1 and phi2 and
put it into the matrix, phi1.hat.
This is matrix with two rows and
one column.
And if we do that we get the following.
So the first estimate here is for
phi1.hat.
This is phi2.hat.
Okay.
So we're almost done, right?
We have the AR(2) process.
We have phi1 and phi2.
Note the following,
the original phi1 was 0.333.
This is 0.34 close, but not really close.
And here we have phi2.
The original phi2 is 0.5.
Estimation gives us 0.48, not bad.
We can get a better estimate by
increasing the number of data points.
Let's look at the variance because this
is the only thing that's remaining,
is to estimate the variance
of the innovations.
So we take the autocorrelation function,
but we say type covariance, right?
We will get autocovariance at lag0, and
we have to start from 1 because
of the indexing in the r.
And then rho.hat is defined to be
autocovariance, this is gamma 0,
estimation of the gamma 0 c0 times 1 minus
that product of our coefficients and
our autocorrelation coefficients.
And then we estimate this we get
var.hat which is the variance,
the estimation of
the variance which is 16.37.
Remember the original variance was 16, the
square of 4, What we get here is 16.37.
And if we plot, so if we partition
the output into three rows,
one column and
we plot the time series acf and pacf.
And if we do that we
obtain the following plot.
This is our time series.
This is the ACF and this is a PACF.
Just note the following, this abuses
the time plot, but if you look at the ACF.
The ACF is decaying, eventually, right?
This is very much like
the typical AR process.
And if you look at the partial ACF,
partial autocorrelation function,
there are only two significant partial
autocorrelation coeffitents at lag1,
at lag2.
And then as if there's no autocorrelation,
that is very typical.
Because, PACF of ARP process
has to cut from lagP.
Here we are looking at the AR(2) process.
So we shouldn't expect to
see anything after lag2.
So what are the results?
Result is that phi1 is estimated by 0.34,
phi2 is estimated by 0.48,
sigma is estimated by 16.37.
This was the actual model.
And this is the fitted model.
And this is basically what we just talked
about, the time plot, ACF and PACF.
So what have we learned?
We have learned estimating
model parameters,
in other words coefficients and
standard deviation or the variance of
the innovations of a simulated
autoregressive processes of order 2.
And we did this by using Yule-Walker
equations in a matrix form.